# Vortex
[Wiki](https://vortex.polyverse.dev)

**Vortex** is a game asset build pipeline utility, akin to a *make* command for assets rather than code, inspired by *ninja*.

It can be retrofitted into any existing pipeline. You just adjust your existing pipeline scripts to generate a single file with the build instructions, then call **Vortex**. We handle all the complexity of running your tools in parallel, including as background daemons, tracking dependencies efficiently and reliably by cached file hashes, and flagging invalid outputs caused by build errors.

## Advantages
- Designed to handle the common game development case where asset build tools frequently get updated, and development bugs occasionally break things. All build outputs are strictly tracked and verified. Recover reliably from any failed build or messing about with the build outputs. Full asset rebuilds are a thing of the past.
- Deal with misbehaving asset build tools.
- Build outputs are hashed to ensure dependent steps never needlessly rebuild. No more comparing file modification dates in duct taped scripts.
- Inputs are checked before and after each build step to ensure they didn't get changed improperly by another tool during the build, flagging an error and aborting the build if they did. Mid-build asset edits won't cause your asset build to go inconsistent anymore.
- Untracked files can be configured to be cleaned up, so there's never any garbage from deleted source assets in the build output folders.

## Usage
All build options are set in the *Vortex* project file which is ideally generated by your own pipeline scripts, akin to *CMake*. Handwritten project files are technically possible, but not the recommended scenario.

```
vortex [--noregen] [target]
```

- **target**: The step which should be built. By default, *main*.
- **--noregen**: Do not let the project file regenerate itself. The project file may specify a command to regenerate itself, which should be identical to the command called to generate the build scripts, i.e. this calls your build pipeline scripts to regenerate the Vortex project. By default the regeneration command is always called to ensure it is up-to-date, so the *--noregen* option may be specified when calling *Vortex* from your own build pipeline to avoid an infinite loop.
